Git is a version control system that allow programmers manage their source code. Git is distributed and every developer has their code repository locally. It is light-weight, fast and easy to use. It is the mostly widely used control sytem. Git allows developers manage every step of their project as well as allows them collaborate with other developers.
Version control system as known as source control, is a category of software tools that help in recording changes made to files by keeping a track of modifications done in the code.In other words, version control system, tracks and manages changes whenever we write new codes or take further actions while writing our codes. It helps developers to work smarter and faster and enables them release products on time as well as seamlessly.
To commit project to the github repository, the following steps should be followed; i. download and install git on your system. ii. Register your git on the local machine (i.e create your username and password as well as set up your token). iii. Log into the github and click on new repository. iv. Give the repository a name , add description and then create repository on the github. v. On your system, save your project in a folder on the desktop and with a name same with your repository name on the git hub ( this is for easy accessibility and identification).  vi. Drag the file into the the text code editor your using,(e.g. visual studio code) vii. On the visual studio code, click on the terminal (this is a command line interface that you can use to run your code) viii. On the VSC terminal run the following command one step at a time; git init (to initialize the git), git read me, git add ( to add your desired file), git commit, git branch (to create a branch), and the git push. This will push your project to the github repository.
